Custom JSON encoders and decoders (#131)
peopledoc/procrastinate: docs/howto/custom_json_encoder_decoder.rst

Define custom JSON encoders and decoders
----------------------------------------

When calling ``mytask.defer()`` to create a job, the task arguments are serialized into
a JSON string for storing into the Postgres database.

> And after fetching a job from the database a Procrastinate worker needs to deserialize

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And after fetching a job from the database, Procrastinate workers need to deserialize
```

Author: Done.

the task arguments before calling the task.

By default Procrastinate relies on the JSON dumps and loads functions used by psycopg2.

> See the `psycopg2 documentation`_. But Procrastinate makes it possible to specify custom

Reviewer: `See the `psycopg2 documentation` ` entre parenthèses, et ne pas couper la phrase en 2 ou enlever "But"

Author: Done.

encoders and decoders.

Here is an example involving serializing/deserializing ``datetime`` objects::

    import functools
    import json

    from procrastinate import App, PostgresJobStore

    # Function used for encoding datetime objects
    def encode(obj):
        if isinstance(obj, datetime.datetime):
            return obj.isoformat()
        raise TypeError()

    # Function used for decoding datetime objects
    def decode(dict_):
        if "dt" in dict_:
            dict_["dt"] = datetime.datetime.fromisoformat(dict_["dt"])
        return dict_

    json_dumps = functools.partial(json.dumps, default=encode)
    json_loads = functools.partial(json.loads, object_hook=decode)

    app = App(job_store=PostgresJobStore(json_dumps=json_dumps, json_loads=json_loads))

In this example the custom JSON dumps and loads functions are based on the standard
``json`` module's ``dumps`` and ``loads`` functions, with specific ``default`` and
``object_hook`` for serializing and deserializing ``datetime`` objects, respectively.
See the `Python 3 json documentation`_ for more detail.

This mechanism even makes it possible to use a different JSON implemation than ``json``,

> such as `UltraJSON`_ for example.

Reviewer: "If your encoding function starts resembling a long list of `if isisntance` calls, you may want to have a look at `functools.singledispatch` (link) for a cleaner way."

Author: Done.
